As mentioned in the last lecture we want to maybe protect some of our routes and we can use a feature
offered by angler which allows us to run some code at a point of time defined by us.
I will add a new file in our root folder and I will name it of guard dogs service dot TS because the
code we run there is stored in such a service.
I'll name it.
Off guard though because the feature of the Anglo router is called guards it guards certain actions
like navigating to or around or away from it.
But in the end it is a normal service and therefore as such I will export a class which will name off
guard.
Or you could add service here to be fully aligned with all the other services.
But since we will only use this as a guard I will leave it at the off guard name.
And now here I will implement the can actually wait interface.
This interface is provided by the angler router package.
So you need to import it and it forces you to have a can actually wait method in this class.
You can ex-teammate method now will receive two arguments D.
The way that route snapshot and the State of the router sody router is state snapshot.
So make sure to add also at diese imports at the top you're from an Anglo router and to add them here
as types for the two parameters we get and can activate.
Now you might ask where are we getting these arguments from.
Keep in mind we we'll have soon to find that angle or should execute this code before a router is loaded
so it will give us this data and we simply need to be able to handle the data so that it can activate
with the arguments it requires can activate all the return something it never returns and observable.
So make sure to import observable from our X chairs observable is the correct path.
In this case does observable then we'll wrap a boolean.
So it will in the end resolve to a true or false value.
Alternatively this route returns a promise also returning the bullion in the end or it returns just
a boolean so can act it can run both asynchronously returning an observable or a promise or synchronously
because you might have some guards which execute some code which runs completely on the client.
Therefore it runs synchronously or you might have some code which takes a couple of seconds to finish
because you use a timeout in there or you reach out to a server.
So it runs asynchronously and both is possible with can actuate.
You'll see an example in a second.
So here we want to be able to log in or out for this.
Let's say we have a number of service d off service and this is just a fake service year.
So I will name and of service and then a real application just might reach out to a server and allow
us to log in or log out and check our current authentication state.
I will track the state here too with the locked in property which is set to Fordson initially and then
I'll add a log in Meffert which will have set locked in to true just like this and a log out method
which was set locked in to false to again fake this behavior and it will have a method which allows
us to check the state authenticated.
And here I want to simulate that this takes some time to finish because maybe we reach out to a server.
Therefore here I will return a promise and you promise therefore this promise will as always take a
method or function as an argument with the resolve and reject method so we can execute.
And it does Bronner's here I will execute set time ought to wait let's say 800 milli seconds and then
execute a natural method in which I will resolve the promise and return this locked in again just to
vague that this takes a couple of seconds to finish or some time to finish.
So with days off service added I know when to use it my off guard and asked Is this all just a service
we need to get at injectable to be able to reach out to the other service to injected servers into discard.
So make sure to import at uncheckable from Anglo core and then we'll add a constructor to my off guard
where I reach out to my fake of service year type of service.
Therefore make sure to add does Impe or two and now and you can activate card I simply want to check
whether the user is locked in or not.
So here I can reach out to my office service to the authenticate method which again keep in mind returns
a promise.
Well therefore we should return this promise here I guess.
So it returns us this promise and here I want to be able to handle that whenever this promise in the
off service resolves.
I know that there I will get back a boolean.
So is authentications state days locked in Boullion is what we resolve here in the end.
And this could be false or true.
So I know that I will get back a boolean and here I don't want to check if this is true in which case
I want to return TRUE an otherwise I want to navigate away because I don't want to allow the user access
to the route you wanted to go to originally.
I will navigate a way to force the user to go somewhere else.
So I will inject the angler router for this because this is how we can navigate with the navigate Meffert.
Make sure to add the import from an angler router and then to your we can navigate with the navigate
map and let's say we just want to go back to a root page with just slash.
So in this case our connected method will navigate away and I will now simply return days promise it
still isn't the end because if we return something inside of the promise it will give us back a number
of promise.
So now we're returning a promise here which gives us back true or simply navigates us away canceling
the old navigation any way steer for.
So this now allows us to control access to whatever is controlled by the US can actually wait guard
here.
Now we're still not using this card of course.
So to use it I'll go to my app routing module and now we want to define which route or routes should
be protected by the US guard and we do so by going to that route.
It's the service route and all its child routes and adding can activate this property to it.
Now can activate takes an array of all the code basically all the guards you want to apply to this route
and it will automatically get get applied to all the child routes so you can activate we'll use mine
off guard.
Make sure to add the import here pointing to your file and this will make sure that service is now only
accessible and all the child routes only accessible if the off guard can quit method returns true in
the end which will only happen if when the off service locked in is set to true.
Since this is set to false and right now we never call log in.
This should always deny us access.
Now before trying this we need to go to our app Marchal and at two news services we added.
So add the off service A.E. off guard which also is a service.
Otherwise Anglo won't be able to inject them for us.
So with that set up let's go to our application click on servers and I can click there as often as I
want.
I can't reach it.
Users works but servers always navigates us back to home after just 800 milliseconds because that is
how long it takes to resolve the information whether we are authentic or not.
We do find these 800 seconds here so our guard is working.
However on our whole service tap.
Now I want to be able to see the list of service and only protect child routes.
How can we do this.